6 New Year's English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Neil
And I'm Beth
It smells delicious, sizzling and oil
And it's great for keeping vampires away
But don't eat it on a first date
I'm talking, of course, about garlic
Neil, do you like garlic?
Oh, yes, I love garlic
I love garlic, I had a very garlicy meal last night
Mmm, I know I can smell it from here
Here is Jason Chan
An Australian chef who specialises in Asian cuisine
And Paul Eric Jensen
A Danish chef living in France
Talking about their love of garlic
To BBC World Service program The Food Jane
I love garlic because it's a versatile ingredient
That can be used for cooking
In the cooking and offers various health benefits
We use it a lot
So from stocks to soups and in vegetables, dishes, meat dishes
There is very certain a clove of garlic in somewhere
Yeah, it's unimaginable, not using garlic
Jason loves garlic because it's versatile
Meaning it can be used in many different ways
And Paul thinks cooking without garlic is unimaginable
Meaning it's difficult to imagine
Because it would be so bad
Love garlic or hate it
In this episode we'll be finding out more about this versatile
Strong smelling food
And as usual we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases as well
And remember you can find all the vocabulary from this episode on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Now, Beth, I have a question for you
It's a little known fact that of the 600 varieties of garlic
Many grew only in the format Soviet Union
And we're unavailable in the west until the fall of communism in the 1990s
So which of the following varieties of garlic grew in the format USSR
Is it a rock and ball?
B fire or C. Resegg
Oh, I have no idea. I'm going to guess fire
Okay, we'll find out if you're right at the end of the program
Garlic is much more than just a cooking ingredient
For centuries garlic was an important food throughout ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome
As well as India and China
It was the Roman Empire that brought garlic to European countries like France
And everywhere garlic grew it was praised for its health giving powers
Here, BBC presenter Rameller Daskubta
Asks author and garlic expert Robyn Cherry
About garlics medicinal uses on BBC World Services the food chain
And what kind of illnesses or conditions would they have treated for instance?
Everything from cancer, scurvy, the plague, respiratory ailments
It was used as an affidysiac
Garlic was used to treat respiratory ailments
An ailment is another word for an illness or minor health problem
So a respiratory ailment is an illness of the lungs
In ancient Greece, garlic was also used as an affidysiac
A food or drink believed to increase sexual desire
But interestingly, this was the same reason why some cultures avoided eating garlic all together
Including a religious group from India called James
Yes, jainism is an ancient Indian religion like Hinduism and Buddhism
Based on the idea of uhimza or non-violence
But unlike many Hindus and Buddhists
James definition of non-violence includes plants and vegetables
James don't eat garlic because uprooting the plant kills both it
And the soil ecosystem it grows in
Here's senal that a Mumbai based cooking show host
An author of many books on Indian cuisine
Explaining another reason why James avoid garlic
To BBC World Service program the food chain
According to Hinduism also
Garlic is considered a food which is called the tamsi
It is believed to stimulate desire, passion, aggression
And that's why they abstain from eating those kinds of food
Because it is believed to impact your spiritual growth and also your mental clarity
James abstain from eating garlic
If you abstain from doing something you choose not to do it
For example, you might abstain from tobacco or alcohol
Because you know that bad for your health
Like the ancient Greeks James believe that garlic stimulates sexual desire
The verb to stimulate means encourage it or cause it to develop and grow
Modern medicine has confirmed some of these ancient beliefs about the health benefits of garlic
Including reduced blood pressure and better gut health
Ok Nail isn't it time you revealed the answer to your question
Yes Beth I asked you which variety of garlic grew in the former USSR
And I said fire was I right?
You were absolutely correct
Fire or Georgian fire is a hot white garlic from the Republic of Georgia in the former Soviet Union
Ok let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with versatile
An adjective meaning to have many different purposes or uses
The phrase it's unimaginable is used to say that something is difficult to imagine
Because it would be so good or so bad
An ailment is an illness or health problem
An Afro-Dizzyac is a food or drink believed to increase sexual desire
If you abstain from something you choose not to do it
And finally to stimulate means to encourage something or cause it to grow
Once again our six minutes are up
If you've enjoyed this episode then head over to our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Why you'll find a quiz and worksheets to practice the vocabulary you've learnt
See you again soon but for now it's goodbye
Goodbye